Merge the documents into main branch (#3)
algosup/2022-2023-project-4-game-design-Team-5: Documents/Technical Specifications/Technical.md

Reviewer: This file should be named `Technical_Specifications.md` and should be directly under `./Documents/Technical Specifications/` or `./Documents/Technical_Specifications/`.

Reviewer 2: Done

    - [Death](#death)
      - [Death by falling](#death-by-falling)
      - [Death by water](#death-by-water)
      - [Death by heat](#death-by-heat)
    - [Discuss](#discuss)
  - [UI](#ui)
    - [Main Menu](#main-menu)
    - [Pause Menu](#pause-menu)
    - [HUD](#hud)
    - [Dialogue](#dialogue)
      - [Help Dialogue](#help-dialogue)
      - [Lore Dialogue](#lore-dialogue)
  - [Audio](#audio)
    - [Music](#music)
  - [Animation](#animation)
    - [Sube](#sube-1)
    - [Catapult](#catapult-1)
    - [Teleporter](#teleporter)
  - [Cutscene](#cutscene)
    - [Intro](#intro)
- [Level](#level)
  - [Level Design](#level-design)
    - [Level 1](#level-1)
    - [Level 2](#level-2)
    - [Level 3](#level-3)
  - [Lighting](#lighting)
- [Softwares](#softwares)
  - [Unreal Engine](#unreal-engine-1)
  - [Epic Games Marketplace](#epic-games-marketplace)
  - [Visual Studio](#visual-studio)
  - [Git](#git-1)
  - [Blender](#blender)

</details>

# General

## Introduction

The goal of this document is to define the technical specifications of the project.
It will be used to define the requirements and the conventions of the project.
As well as the tools we will use.

## Glossary

> - **MVP**: Minimum Viable Product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MVP**: Minimum Viable Product
- **WIP**: Stand for Work In Progress
```

- **Asset**: A file that can be imported in Unreal Engine
- **Perforce**: A version control system (Similar to Git)
- **GitLab**: A version control system (Similar to Github)
- **GitHub**: A version control system
- **Blueprint**: A file that can be created in Unreal Engine
- **Material**: A file that can be created in Unreal Engine
- **Texture**: A file that can be created in Unreal Engine
- **Animation**: A file that can be created in Unreal Engine
- **Plugin**: A file that can be created in Unreal Engine
- **Sube**: The main character of the game
- **NPC**: Non-Playable Character
- **UI**: User Interface
- **HUD**: Heads-Up Display
- **Dialogue**: A text that appears on the screen
- **Cutscene**: A sequence of events that are not controlled by the player
- **Level**: A map of the game
- **Blur**: A visual effect that makes the image blurry

> - **Lore**: A story that is not directly related to the gameplay

Reviewer: The glossary could be more good looking and readable in a nice table.

# Requirements

## Unreal Engine

We must use Unreal Engine 4.27.

## Github

We must use Github to manage our project.
We also need to expand storage space for our project ( due to the size of the assets ).

> - Perforce doesn't solve the problem (Files still to big for Github).

Reviewer: ```markdown
- Perforce doesn't solve the problem (Files still to big for Github).
```
What do you mean by `Perforce doesn't solve the problem`.

perforce definition:
used to express necessity or inevitability.

- Self-hosted Gitlab doesn't solve the problem (Won't appear on Github).

> - Self-hosted Github doesn't solve the problem (Won't appear on Github).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This line appears twice. Should remove it.

- Private External SSD doesn't solve the problem (Won't appear on Github and limit to 1 person working).

# Convention

## Naming

Folders, files, Class, functions, variables must be named in English and in Pascal Snake Case.

> Everythings must be in English and have a meaningfull name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything must be in English and have a meaningful name.
```

## Folder / File

> 

Reviewer: You could describe in this section the folder structure (using for example a file cascading tree) or at least describe its pattern.

Imported assets will be in their own folder.
Created blueprints will be in 'Blueprint' folder.
Created materials will be in 'Material' folder.
Created textures will be in 'Texture' folder.
Created animations will be in 'Animation' folder.
Created sounds will be in 'Sound' folder.

## Blueprint

Blueprints must be named in English and in Pascal Snake Case.
They will be in the 'Blueprint' folder. Except for blueprints imported with an asset.

## Git

### Branch

> Each branch must be named in English and have a meaningfull name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each branch must be named in English and have a meaningful name.
```

There will be a branch for:

- The main branch
- MVP Branch
- Demo branch

> - One for each functionnalities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- One for each functionalities
```

### Commit

> Each commit must be named in English and have a meaningfull name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each commit must be named in English and have a meaningful name.
```

Multiple commits can be done in one branch.
Commit as much as possible, it will help us to keep track of the changes.

> You can commit not working code, as long as it's not pushed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can commit not WIP, as long as it's not merged in the main branch.
```

### Pull Request

> Each pull request must be named in English and have a meaningfull name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each pull request must be named in English and have a meaningful name.
```

Each pull request must be reviewed and approved by at least one other person.

> Each pull request must be merged by the person who created the pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each pull request must be merged by the person who created it or by a *maintainer*.
```

Each pull request must have a description of the changes made.

### Issue

> Each issue must be named in English and have a meaningfull name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each issue must be named in English and have a meaningful name.
```

Each issue must be assigned to a person.
Each issue must have a description of the problem (c.f [Issues](https://github.com/algosup/2022-2023-project-4-game-design-Team-5/issues)).

# Asset

## Environment

The house asset is from the Unreal Engine Marketplace. It is a triplex house with a lot of rooms and a garden. The asset is free to use for non-commercial projects. The asset is available [here](https://www.unrealengine.com/marketplace/en-US/product/big-triplex-house-villa).
It's already made and we can use it as a base for our game.
All materials and textures are already made and applied to the asset.

## Character

### Sube

Sube is the main character and is a sugar cube.
For the MVP, Sube will be a simple cube with a material of sugar applied to it.

> For the final version, Sube will be a 3D model of a sugar cube with a material of sugar applied to it. It will have to be designed by us on Blender.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the final version, Sube will be a 3D model of a sugar cube with a material of sugar applied to it. It will have to be designed by our team on Blender.
```

### NPC

> Npc are going to be other sugar cubes that will be used to interact with the player.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NPCs will be other sugar cubes that will be used to interact with the player.
```

It may be used to give the player a hint or lore about the game.

> For the MVP, Npc will be a simple cube with a material of sugar applied to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the MVP, NPCs will be simple cubes with a material of sugar applied to it.
```

> For the final version, Npc will be a 3D model of a sugar cube with a material of sugar applied to it. It will have to be designed by us on Blender.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the final version, NPCs will be a 3D model of a sugar cube with a material of sugar applied to it. They will also be designed by our team on Blender.
```

## Plugin

> Gravity change plugin is a plugin that allows us to change the gravity of the player. It is available [here](https://www.unrealengine.com/marketplace/en-US/product/directional-planet-gravity). It is free to use for non-commercial projects. It will be used for the sticky functionnality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gravity change plugin is a plugin that allows us to change the gravity of the player. It is available [here](https://www.unrealengine.com/marketplace/en-US/product/directional-planet-gravity). It is free to use for non-commercial projects. It will be used for the sticky functionality.
```
```markdown
It will be used for the sticky functionality.
```
You may want to add a link (href) about the related Mechanic directly on the *Sticky functionality* text.

# Gameplay

## Objective

The objective of the game is to reach the cup of coffee. The cup of coffee is the end of the game.
The game will be separated in levels. Each level will move the cup of coffee further away from the player.

## Camera

## Mechanics

> Each mechanic will be explained in details here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each mechanics will be listed and explained in details here.
```

### Movement

The player will be able to move on 2 axis (X / Y by default).
The player will be able to move at a constant speed.
The player will be able to move in 4 directions (Up / Down / Left / Right).
Each direction will be mapped to a key.

> - Forward: Z
> - Backward: S
> - Left: Q
> - Right: D

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|          | Key | Alternative Key |
|----------|-----|-----------------|
| Forward  | Z   | ↑               |
| Backward | S   | ↓               |
| Left     | Q   | ←               |
| Right    | D   | →               |
```
Nice looking table + add alternative keys for left handed people.

Reviewer 2: Kept the table part
But Arrow might be used in the future for something else

We might use arrows for the second cube. 
We might add arrow as Alternate Key if we don't introduce the split feature

Each key when pressed will trigger a movement in the corresponding direction.

> The will also trigger the associated animation for the cube to move.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They will also trigger the associated animation for the cube to move.
```

> While the cube is moving, any other interractions will be disabled to avoid unwanted behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the cube is moving, any other interaction will be disabled to avoid unwanted behavior.
```

### Obstacle

Obstacles will be placed in the level to prevent the player from reaching the cup of coffee.
Obstacles will be items integrated in the environment and might take any forms ( Wall, plate, etc. ).
Each obstacle will have a collision box for the player to not glitch through it.
Each obstacle will have a material to make it visible.
Each obstacles placement and details will be define in the [Level section](#level).

### Sticky

Sticky will be a mechanic that will allow the player to stick to walls.
It will be shown as a green particle effect on the wall as if the wall was dirty.
It will activate when the player enter a special zone.
And will stay activated as long as the player stay in that zone and follow the predefined path.
The controls stay relative to the camera.

> It means old controls become as follow:
> 
> - Forward: Z -> Forward
> - Backward: S -> Backward
> - Left: Q -> Down
> - Right: D -> Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It means old controls become as follow:

|          | Key | Alternative Key | Action   |
|----------|-----|-----------------|----------|
| Forward  | Z   | ↑               | Forward  |
| Backward | S   | ↓               | Backward |
| Left     | Q   | ←               | Down     |
| Right    | D   | →               | Up       |
```

Reviewer 2: Kept the table part
But Arrow might be used in the future for something else

We might use arrows for the second cube. 
We might add arrow as Alternate Key if we don't introduce the split feature

  
If the player is sticked to a wall and decide to leave the predefined path, the sticky mechanic will be deactivated and the player will fall resulting in a death.

### Catapult

Catapult will be a mechanic that will allow the player to launch itself in the air.
It will be represented as a spoon.
It will activate when the player enter the back of the spoon.
It will launch the player in the direction of the spoon from point A to point B.

> 

Reviewer: How would the player enable the launch of this spoon ?

Reviewer 2: Details Added

There is no laucnh control, air control or gravity control.
The controls will be desactivated while the player is in the air.
The catapult have an animation.

### Teleport

Teleport will be a mechanic that will allow the player to teleport to a specific location.
It will be represented as mouse hole.
It will activate when the player enter the mouse hole.
It will teleport the player to the other side of the mouse hole.

> The teleport will be instant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleportation will be instantaneous.
```

> It will be one sided ( No come back ).

Reviewer: Are you sure about this statement ?

Reviewer 2: For the moment, it will be easier for Game design, it might change in the future if we think it will add a big difference in the gameplay

It have an animation.

### Death

The player have multiple ways to die.

#### Death by falling

The player will die if he fall from a height.
For a better gameplay, the player will be teleported to the start of the level when he fall from a height.

#### Death by water

The player will die if he fall in the water.
The player will be able to stay for a maximum of 3.00 seconds in the water before dying.
This obstacle will be represented as a water puddle.
To have the most realistic gameplay, the water will have to be placed on a straight surface.
To keep the gameplay fluid, the player will be teleported to the start of the level when he fall in the water for more than 3.00 sec.

> 

Reviewer 2: Added in the HUD section

#### Death by heat

The player will die if he stay in the heat for more than 5.00 sec.
This obstacle will be represented as a light.
To keep the gameplay fluid, the player will be teleported to the start of the level when he stay in the heat for more than 5.00 sec.

> 

Reviewer: We should add effects to notice the player that he's actually dying.

Reviewer 2: Added in the HUD section

For each clickable button, there will be an asset for the normal state and another asset when it's hovered.
| Idle button | Hovered button |
| ----------- | -------------- |
| ![Idle](../Pictures/button_bg.png) | ![Hovered](../Pictures/button_bg_hover.png) |
Each button will be anchored to the left.
The menu will be at 30% from the top of the screen.
Buttons will be spaced by 30 pixels verticaly.

### Pause Menu

Pause menu will be accessible by pressing the escape key while in game.
The pause menu will be a simple menu with a 'Resume' button and a 'Exit' button.
The background image will be the actual game with a blur of 30%.
The menu will be at 30% from the top of the screen.
Buttons will be spaced by 30 pixels verticaly.
Each button will be anchored to the left.
For each clickable button, there will be an asset for the normal state and another asset when it's hovered.
| Idle button | Hovered button |
| ----------- | -------------- |
| ![Idle](../Pictures/button_bg.png) | ![Hovered](../Pictures/button_bg_hover.png) |

### HUD

The game won't have a HUD.
No data as life point, experience, etc is in the game.

### Dialogue

#### Help Dialogue

> 

Reviewer 2: Details added

The lore dialogue will be a simple dialogue box with a text.
The text will be in the middle of the box.
The box will be on the person who is talking.
The size of the box will depends on the content of the text.

## Audio

### Music

The music will be a simple music that will be played in the background.
It will be played in loop.
Here is the music: [Music](../Sound/Background_Music.mp3)

## Animation

All animations will be done in Unreal Engine.

### Sube

Sube will have a simple animation when he's 'walking'.
It will be a simple animation of the cube moving.
As Sube is a cube, it will be a simple animation of the cube moving from a side to another as if it was pushed.

### Catapult

The catapult will have the animation of a spoon throwing a sugar cube.

### Teleporter

The teleporter while have a screen animation.
It will fade-out the game and fade-in the new location.

## Cutscene

### Intro

The intro will be a simple cutscene that will show the player the story of the game.
It will be a cutscene with the human preparing a coffee.
The human will put the coffee in the machine and the machine will start to make the coffee.

> The human will have a phone call and will leave the coffee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the coffee is ready, the human will receive a phone call and leave the coffee at the end of the kitchen worktop.
```

He will move the cup of coffee to the Objective.
The camera will travel to the sugar bag and we will see Sube getting out of the bag.
The camera will travel to Sube and we will take control of him.
That's when the level starts.

![Level 1 map](../Pictures/Level_1.png)

If the player fall of the desk, he will die and will be teleported to the start of the level.

If the player doesn't move for 5 seconds, a hint dialogue will appear.
The hint dialogue will be a simple dialogue box with a text.
It will explain to the player that he can move by pressing the ZQSD keys.

### Level 2
The second level will be a simple level with a start and an end.
It will introduce the player to the water feature.
The level will take place on the work plan near the sink and around the sink.

It will start by a small cutscene that will show a human moving the coffee cup to the other side of the sink.
The camera will come back to Sube and we will take control of him.
That's when the level starts.

![Level 2 map](../Pictures/Level_2.png)

If the player fall of the desk, he will die and will be teleported to the start of the level.
There is 2 path possible.

> - the first one is os the void side of the desk, it is the intended path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the first one is in the 'void' side of the desk, it is the intended path.
```
